#### The Call

Cold calling isn't fun. Even for somebody like me, with years of experience under my belt, I will gladly say -- it's not fun. Thankfully, I don't do cold calling much anymore.

You are probably thinking something like, yeah that's because you got so many contacts now you don't have to -- that's wrong.

I tried to minimize my cold calling because it's pointless and ineffective. I tried it. I really did. When the economy collapsed, I had to pick up a inside sales job. I showed up before any of the other sales people did, and I left after them. The number of calls made hovered around 275-300 calls per day, with an average of 4.5 hours of talk time. Out of my class, I was the first people let go. I could never make the adjustment from outside sales to inside sales, and as a result I couldn't close crap.

From that day forward for another 2 years, I absolutely REFUSED to do cold calling over the phone. All the beginning succes I had at the daily deal company was from ground & pound sales. I could use the surroundings to build rapport, piggy back off of neighboring merchants, talk about the local area. Whatever it is to build that connection.

Sometime around in 2011, I got a new boss. One of the most gifted trainers I have ever met. Her gift doesn't come her ability to train on how-to sale, but from the fact that she knows how to unlock inner desires from within a person that allows themselves to push to higher & higher levels.

We were sitting outside of her hotel, and she put a challenge on the table. To make the adjustment from ground & pound to include more cold calling. Maybe it's because I am very competitive, but I do not like losing a challenge. That alone motivated me enough to give it one more shot.

This time though, I started using these clues that I have developed over the time at the daily deal company to help me out. I wasn't trying to sell over the phone, my sole goal was to get an appointment.

And since, I was already searching the internet for leads, I just took my search one step further. I got some information about them through various searches where you google the business name + "owner". Once you get the owner's name, you can just google that.

That amount of information on the internet about anyone is amazing. You can find out a lot. Maybe they own multiple businesses, maybe they went to your school. This is all information you can use during the call & presentation.

Within enough calls, my system started to develop. These calls were no longer cold calls. They were almost "warm" calls. When you call up a business and say "Is Steve there?", you will almost always get transfered. The internet told me 60% of the information I needed. The rest I could get through the gatekeeper or the decision maker.

Since I brought up the gatekeeper, I want to talk about a personal thing that really pisses me off when I read on the internet. "Don't ever pitch the gatekeeper, don't even talk to them." 

I have heard this phrase in various ways. I am in firm belief that a gatekeeper can become your best friend or your worst enemy in sales. You don't want to talk to her/him? They can easily never transfer your call to the right mailbox, the right person. That is why they are paid to be there, to filter out people.

If you call a business enough, you slowly get to know the gatekeeper. I can't tell how many times a conversation went something along the lines of:

"Hi Mary, it's Robert again. How's your day going? ------ Great! Is Mr. Decision Maker in right now?"

"Oh no he's not. Here is his personal cell phone though."

How could a gatekeeper even give you that information if you refuse to talk to them? They can't. But they can sure deny you the opportunity. 

I'm not talking about full-blown pitches, but enough to get them to have a piqued interest to help you out, 1-2 sentences. And always be friendly to them. Their job is filled with assholes that won't give them any respect. You giving them respect will get you just that much farther, and possibly leave you that memorable impression that could lead you to getting that cell phone.

